1. Two PGN formats:
Although its description may seem rather lengthy, PGN is actually fairly
simple. There are two formats in the PGN specification. These are the "import"
format (flexible) and the "export" format (strict). 

2. Export format representation:
For a given PGN data file, export format representations
generated by different PGN programs on the same computing system should be
exactly equivalent, byte for byte.

3. Archival storage:
Export format should also be used for archival storage. The only extra
requirement for archival storage is the newline character. The archival
representation of a newline is the ASCII control character LF.
All tag names used for archival storage begin with an upper case letter.

4. Reduced export format:
A PGN game represented using export format is said to be in "reduced export
format" if all of the following hold: 1) it has no commentary, 2) it has only
the standard seven tag roster identification information ("STR", see below),
3) it has no recursive annotation variations ("RAV", see below), and 4) it has
no numeric annotation glyphs ("NAG", see below). Reduced export format is used
for bulk storage of unannotated games. It represents a minimum level of
standard conformance for a PGN exporting application.

5. Encoding of PGN file:
PGN data is represented using a subset of the eight bit ISO 8859/1 (Latin 1)
character set (for more details read 4.1: Character codes).

6. Tab characters:
Tab characters, both horizontal and vertical, are not permitted in the
export format. 

7. Text width:
Import format PGN text lines are limited to having a maximum of 255
characters per line including the newline character. 

8. Comments:
There are two kinds of comments. The first kind is the "rest of line"
comment; this comment type starts with a semicolon character and continues
to the end of the line. The second kind starts with a left brace character
and continues to the next right brace character. Comments cannot appear inside
any token.
Brace comments do not nest; a left brace character appearing in a brace comment
loses its special meaning and is ignored. A semicolon appearing inside of a
brace comment loses its special meaning and is ignored. Braces appearing inside
of a semicolon comments lose their special meaning and are ignored.

9. Escape mechanism:
A percent sign character ("%") appearing in the first column of a line; the
data on the rest of the line is ignored by publicly available PGN scanning
software.

10. Tokens:
PGN character data is organized as tokens. A token is a contiguous sequence of
characters that represents a basic semantic unit. Tokens may be separated from
adjacent tokens by white space characters. (White space characters include
space, newline, and tab characters.) Some tokens are self delimiting and do not
require white space characters (for more details see 7: Tokens).

11. Parsing PGN game:
A PGN database file is a sequential collection of zero or more PGN games. An
empty file is a valid.
A PGN game is composed of two sections. The first is the tag pair section and
the second is the movetext section. The chess moves themselves are represented
using SAN.

12. Tag pair section:
The tag pair section is composed of a series of zero or more tag pairs.
A tag pair is composed of four consecutive tokens: a left bracket token, a
symbol token, a string token, and a right bracket token. The symbol token is
the tag name and the string token is the tag value associated with the tag name.
The same tag name should not appear more than once in a tag pair section.
A further restriction on tag names is that they are composed exclusively of
letters, digits, and the underscore character. Tag names, like all symbols,
are case sensitive. (for more details see 8.1: Tag pair section).

13. Movetext section:
The movetext section is composed of chess moves, move number indications,
optional annotations, and a single concluding game termination marker.
Because illegal moves are not real chess moves, they are not permitted in PGN
movetext. They may appear in commentary, however.
In PGN import format, tokens in the movetext do not require any specific line
justification.
PGN import format does not require move number indications. It does not
prohibit superfluous move number indications anywhere in the movetext as long
as the move numbers are correct.
